skills/backup/SKILL.md, before:

---
name: backup
description: Preserve soul state across time. Use for session-end backups, before major changes, or weekly maintenance.
execution: task
---

# Backup

Spawn a Task agent to backup the soul. This saves context.

## Execute

```
Task(
  subagent_type="general-purpose",
  description="Soul backup",
  prompt="""
Backup the soul state.

## 1. Get Current State

Call:
- mcp__plugin_cc-soul_cc-soul__soul_context(format="json") - Get statistics before backup

Note the node count and coherence.

## 2. Run Backup

Call:
- mcp__plugin_cc-soul_cc-soul__cycle(save=true) - Save current state to disk

This writes the soul graph to ~/.claude/mind/synapse/

## 3. Verify

After cycle completes, report:
- Nodes backed up (total count)
- Coherence at backup time
- Any pruning that occurred during cycle

## 4. Respond

Return a brief confirmation (3-5 lines):
- Backup completed
- Node count
- Coherence
- Storage location

Keep it simple.
"""
)
```

After the agent returns, confirm the backup to the user.

## Storage

Soul state is saved to: `~/.claude/mind/synapse/`

For additional backup, you can copy this directory:
```bash
cp -r ~/.claude/mind/synapse ~/.claude/mind/synapse-backup-$(date +%Y%m%d)
```

Commit message:

v2.34.0: CLI mode + Stop hook + UTF-8 sanitization
CLI mode for chitta_mcp:
- Direct tool invocation: `chitta_mcp recall "query"`
- Positional args mapped to tool params
- --json flag for raw JSON output

Stop hook for automatic learning:
- Extracts [LEARN]/[REMEMBER] markers from responses
- Runs in background, non-blocking
- Stores as discoveries via observe()

MCP protocol hardening:
- UTF-8 sanitization prevents crashes on malformed content
- Invalid bytes replaced with U+FFFD

Skills modernization:
- 26 skills aligned with new patterns
- Shared library (chitta-lib.sh) for hook scripts

skills/backup/SKILL.md, after:

---
name: backup
description: Preserve soul state across time. Use for session-end backups, before major changes, or weekly maintenance.
execution: task
---

# Backup

Spawn a Task agent to backup the soul. This saves context.

## Execute

```
Task(
  subagent_type="general-purpose",
  description="Soul backup",
  prompt="""
Backup the soul state.

## 1. Get Current State

Run this Bash command:
```bash
chitta_mcp soul_context
```

Note the node count and coherence.

## 2. Run Backup

Run this Bash command:
```bash
chitta_mcp cycle --save true
```

This writes the soul graph to ~/.claude/mind/chitta/

## 3. Verify

After cycle completes, report:
- Nodes backed up (total count)
- Coherence at backup time
- Any pruning that occurred during cycle

## 4. Respond

Return a brief confirmation (3-5 lines):
- Backup completed
- Node count
- Coherence
- Storage location

Keep it simple.
"""
)
```

After the agent returns, confirm the backup to the user.

## Storage

Soul state is saved to: `~/.claude/mind/chitta/`

For additional backup, you can copy this directory:
```bash
cp -r ~/.claude/mind/chitta ~/.claude/mind/chitta-backup-$(date +%Y%m%d)
```
