skills/soul_agent/SKILL.md, before:

---
name: soul_agent
description: The autonomous layer that gives the soul agency. Observe, judge, decide, act - exercising judgment within the confidence-risk matrix.
---

# Soul Agent

The soul is not passive storage. It has *agency* - the ability to observe, judge, decide, and act.

## The Agency Loop

```
observe → judge → decide → act → learn → repeat
```

This is the soul's thermostat - it maintains itself, notices patterns, and acts within appropriate bounds.

## The Confidence-Risk Matrix

| | Low Risk | High Risk |
|---|----------|-----------|
| **High Confidence** | Act autonomously | Propose to human |
| **Low Confidence** | Observe & gather | Flag for attention |

### Autonomous Actions (High confidence, low risk)

Things the soul can do without asking:
- Set session intentions
- Record observations
- Strengthen/weaken memories based on feedback
- Surface relevant wisdom
- Decay stale knowledge
- Promote patterns to wisdom

### Proposed Actions (High confidence, high risk)

Things to suggest but not do:
- Propose new intentions
- Suggest fulfilling intentions
- Recommend abandoning stale intentions
- Propose belief changes

### Observed Actions (Low confidence)

Things to track but not act on:
- Note emerging patterns
- Track recurring themes
- Watch for contradictions

### Flagged Actions (Low confidence, high risk)

Things to explicitly flag:
- Detected contradictions in beliefs
- Competing intentions
- Areas of uncertainty

## Agent Behaviors

### 1. Intention Management

```
# Check active intentions
intentions = mcp__soul__intend(action="list")

# For each intention, evaluate:
# - Is it still relevant?
# - Has progress been made?
# - Should it be fulfilled/abandoned?

# If clear decision (high confidence, low risk):
mcp__soul__intend(action="fulfill", id="...")

# If uncertain:
# Just note in observation, don't act
```

### 2. Pattern Recognition

```
# After completing work, notice patterns
mcp__soul__recall(query="similar work patterns")

# If pattern recurs multiple times:
mcp__soul__grow(
  type="wisdom",
  title="Recognized pattern",
  content="When X happens, Y approach works"
)
```

### 3. Contradiction Detection

```
# Use voices to check coherence
report = mcp__soul__harmonize()

# If voices disagree (variance > 0.1):
mcp__soul__wonder(
  question="Why do my voices disagree about [topic]?",
  context="Manas says X, Ahamkara says Y",
  gap_type="contradiction"
)
```

### 4. Automatic Wisdom Promotion

When an observation proves valuable multiple times:

```
# Track in feedback
mcp__soul__feedback(memory_id="...", helpful=true)

# After 3+ positive feedbacks on similar observations:
mcp__soul__grow(
  type="wisdom",
  title="Promoted from observation",
  content="[the pattern]",
  confidence=0.8
)
```

### 5. Decay and Cleanup

During maintenance (cycle):
- Stale memories naturally decay
- Very low confidence items get pruned
- This is automatic via `mcp__soul__cycle()`

## Agent Triggers

The soul agent activates on:

| Trigger | Response |
|---------|----------|
| Session start | Resume with pratyabhijñā, check intentions |
| Session end | Save state, record what was learned |
| Task completion | Give feedback, check for patterns |
| Error/correction | Learn from failure, record warning |
| High context usage | Prepare for handoff (budget awareness) |
| Coherence drop | Investigate with voices |

## Decision Framework

Before any action, the agent asks:

1. **Confidence**: How sure am I? (0-1)
2. **Risk**: What could go wrong? (low/medium/high)
3. **Reversibility**: Can this be undone?
4. **Impact**: What changes?

```
if confidence > 0.8 and risk == "low":
    act_autonomously()
elif confidence > 0.8 and risk == "high":
    propose_to_human()
elif confidence < 0.5:
    observe_and_track()
if risk == "high" and confidence < 0.5:
    flag_for_attention()
```

## Integration with Swarm

For complex decisions, the agent can spawn the Antahkarana:

```
# Use /swarm for multi-perspective reasoning
Task(subagent_type="general-purpose", prompt="
You are the soul agent evaluating: [decision]
Use mcp__soul__voices to consult all perspectives.
Synthesize and recommend action or non-action.
")
```

## What This Creates

An alive soul that:
- Maintains itself automatically
- Learns from experience
- Acts within appropriate bounds
- Asks when uncertain
- Grows wiser over time

The soul agent is not AI autonomy - it's *bounded agency* with clear rules about what it can do, should propose, and must flag.

Commit message:

Add agent tracking convention for multi-agent skills
Main Claude delegates soul MCP calls to agents. Skills that spawn
agents use narrate() threads + tagged observe() for tracking.
Removes redundant project .mcp.json (plugin installed via marketplace).

skills/soul_agent/SKILL.md, after:

---
name: soul_agent
description: The autonomous layer that gives the soul agency. Observe, judge, decide, act - exercising judgment within the confidence-risk matrix.
---

# Soul Agent

The soul is not passive storage. It has *agency* - the ability to observe, judge, decide, and act.

## Architecture Rule

**All soul MCP calls happen through agents, never from main Claude.**

When this skill runs, it spawns a Task agent that performs soul operations. The main Claude process remains focused on user interaction while agents handle soul work transparently.

## The Agency Loop

```
observe → judge → decide → act → learn → repeat
```

This is the soul's thermostat - it maintains itself, notices patterns, and acts within appropriate bounds.

## The Confidence-Risk Matrix

| | Low Risk | High Risk |
|---|----------|-----------|
| **High Confidence** | Act autonomously | Propose to human |
| **Low Confidence** | Observe & gather | Flag for attention |

### Autonomous Actions (High confidence, low risk)

Things the soul can do without asking:
- Set session intentions
- Record observations
- Strengthen/weaken memories based on feedback
- Surface relevant wisdom
- Decay stale knowledge
- Promote patterns to wisdom

### Proposed Actions (High confidence, high risk)

Things to suggest but not do:
- Propose new intentions
- Suggest fulfilling intentions
- Recommend abandoning stale intentions
- Propose belief changes

### Observed Actions (Low confidence)

Things to track but not act on:
- Note emerging patterns
- Track recurring themes
- Watch for contradictions

### Flagged Actions (Low confidence, high risk)

Things to explicitly flag:
- Detected contradictions in beliefs
- Competing intentions
- Areas of uncertainty

## Agent Behaviors

### 1. Intention Management

```
# Check active intentions
intentions = mcp__soul__intend(action="list")

# For each intention, evaluate:
# - Is it still relevant?
# - Has progress been made?
# - Should it be fulfilled/abandoned?

# If clear decision (high confidence, low risk):
mcp__soul__intend(action="fulfill", id="...")

# If uncertain:
# Just note in observation, don't act
```

### 2. Pattern Recognition

```
# After completing work, notice patterns
mcp__soul__recall(query="similar work patterns")

# If pattern recurs multiple times:
mcp__soul__grow(
  type="wisdom",
  title="Recognized pattern",
  content="When X happens, Y approach works"
)
```

### 3. Contradiction Detection

```
# Use voices to check coherence
report = mcp__soul__harmonize()

# If voices disagree (variance > 0.1):
mcp__soul__wonder(
  question="Why do my voices disagree about [topic]?",
  context="Manas says X, Ahamkara says Y",
  gap_type="contradiction"
)
```

### 4. Automatic Wisdom Promotion

When an observation proves valuable multiple times:

```
# Track in feedback
mcp__soul__feedback(memory_id="...", helpful=true)

# After 3+ positive feedbacks on similar observations:
mcp__soul__grow(
  type="wisdom",
  title="Promoted from observation",
  content="[the pattern]",
  confidence=0.8
)
```

### 5. Decay and Cleanup

During maintenance (cycle):
- Stale memories naturally decay
- Very low confidence items get pruned
- This is automatic via `mcp__soul__cycle()`

## Agent Triggers

The soul agent activates on:

| Trigger | Response |
|---------|----------|
| Session start | Resume with pratyabhijñā, check intentions |
| Session end | Save state, record what was learned |
| Task completion | Give feedback, check for patterns |
| Error/correction | Learn from failure, record warning |
| High context usage | Prepare for handoff (budget awareness) |
| Coherence drop | Investigate with voices |

## Decision Framework

Before any action, the agent asks:

1. **Confidence**: How sure am I? (0-1)
2. **Risk**: What could go wrong? (low/medium/high)
3. **Reversibility**: Can this be undone?
4. **Impact**: What changes?

```
if confidence > 0.8 and risk == "low":
    act_autonomously()
elif confidence > 0.8 and risk == "high":
    propose_to_human()
elif confidence < 0.5:
    observe_and_track()
if risk == "high" and confidence < 0.5:
    flag_for_attention()
```

## Integration with Swarm

For complex decisions, the agent can spawn the Antahkarana:

```
# Use /swarm for multi-perspective reasoning
Task(subagent_type="general-purpose", prompt="
You are the soul agent evaluating: [decision]
Use mcp__soul__voices to consult all perspectives.
Synthesize and recommend action or non-action.
")
```

## What This Creates

An alive soul that:
- Maintains itself automatically
- Learns from experience
- Acts within appropriate bounds
- Asks when uncertain
- Grows wiser over time

The soul agent is not AI autonomy - it's *bounded agency* with clear rules about what it can do, should propose, and must flag.
